Title: Make Something Wonderful
Date: 2023
URL: https://book.stevejobsarchive.com/
Chunk: 20/32

“A Bug’s Life Sweeps.”

From: Steve Jobs

To: Pixar

Subject: A Bug’s Life Sweeps Thanksgiving Weekend Box Office

Date: November 30, 1998, 7:19 a.m.

A Bug’s Life swept the Thanksgiving box office with a record-setting $46.5 million for the five-day weekend, breaking the previous Thanksgiving weekend record of $45 million set by Disney’s 101 Dalmatians (live-action) in 1996. A Bug’s Life also set a new three-day (Fri-Sat-Sun) Thanksgiving weekend record of $33.6 million.

The exit polls are exceptionally positive. The audience was equally split between males and females (very high ratio of males), and 16% were the highly-desirable non-family “date” audience (we didn’t get this high of a non-family audience for Toy Story until two weeks after its opening). Audiences loved A Bug’s Life, and are telling their friends to see it.

As for the competition, over the five-day weekend Rugrats drooled a respectable $27.6 million, Babe: Pig in the City squealed across the finish line with just $8.5 million, and Antz was squashed with just $1.2 million.

Congratulations go to John, Andrew, Darla, Kevin and entire A Bug’s Life crew. What a special present you have given the world. All of us at Pixar feel so proud to be associated with such excellence. Congratulations also go to Jan, Karen and the Geri’s Game crew for their magical short (audiences around the country loved it too).

If you divide our Thanksgiving weekend box office of $46.5 million by the average ticket price of around $6 -- it tells us that around 7.5 million people saw our movie this weekend!! Few people ever get the chance to make 7.5 million people laugh so much and feel so good. Or 450 people at Pixar feel so proud.

Congratulations.

Steve

Email to Apple Employees

“We Did It!”

From: Steve Jobs

To: Apple employees

Subject: We did it!

Date: December 23, 1998, 9:31 a.m.

Yesterday the market data was released, and …. (drum roll) …. iMAC WAS THE NUMBER ONE SELLING COMPUTER IN THE U.S. during the month of November in U.S. retail and mail order channels, outselling all other brands!!

iMac captured 7.1% of unit volume and 8.2% of dollar volume, propelling Apple’s overall market share in retail and mail order to double from about 5% in August to 10% in November. You can read all about it on our website (www.apple.com in hot news section) or in today’s Wall Street Journal (US Edition, page A1 and B7).

This incredible achievement is the result of our hard work. Please take a moment and reflect on how far we have come in the last 18 months. It’s amazing what we have all accomplished together. I am very proud of our team, and feel so excited to be at Apple. Have a wonderful holiday.

Steve

Email to Apple Employees

“Macintosh Turns Fifteen.”

From: Steve Jobs

To: Apple employees

Subject: Macintosh Turns Fifteen

Date: January 24, 1999, 7:49 p.m.

Fifteen years ago today, on January 24, 1984, Apple launched the first Macintosh at Flint Center in Cupertino, California. Its revolutionary ease of use made computing accessible to “the rest of us”, and its infusion of graphics and typography placed the Macintosh at the intersection of computer science and liberal arts. The Macintosh went on to become the second revolution in personal computing (the Apple II was the first), and its revolutionary ideas and benefits spread beyond Apple - they have changed the face of an entire industry and touched hundreds of millions of people around the globe. Apple has a lot to be proud of here.

While I am not normally one to look back, today is a good day to remember Apple’s legacy, which is to bridge the gap between sophisticated technology and “the rest of us” who make up most of humanity. It’s our job to make complex technology easy to use and fun to use. The need for this bridge is even greater today than it was in 1984 when the Macintosh debuted. Back then, users didn’t have to deal with the complexities of connecting to networks and the Internet, setting up email, managing device drivers and init files, and all of the other things that drive today’s computer users mad.

The computer world shows no signs of getting simpler as we enter the coming century. And no other company has yet taken Apple’s place as the bridge builder. As we return to our roots and once again begin delivering simpler and better ways to use computers, Apple’s future looks both bright and secure.

It’s been an amazing journey so far, yet we have barely begun.

Steve

Email from Steve to Himself

“Apple’s Reason For Being.”

Steve often captured his thoughts by emailing himself notes.

From: Steve Jobs

To: Steve Jobs

Subject: Apple’s reason for being

Date: October 29, 2000, 4:39 p.m.

Apple is the world’s premier company at building high technology products that are easy to learn and use by mere mortals. Beginning over 20 years ago, Apple has consistently set the standard for easy to use computer systems and software. Why do we do this? Because we are in love with the potential for personal computers to enhance and enrich the lives of regular people - not just with spreadsheets and databases, but with creative

We’re a creatively driven company in everything we do. From breakthrough product features and operating systems to culturally leading product design and advertising. Heck, we INVENTED the personal computer, spawned desktop publishing and are now bringing desktop movies to millions. And our engineers are hard at work on several more exciting breakthroughs you’ll see in 2001.

Apple marries state of the art technology with Apple’s legendary ease-of-use to create products that enable users to do more

Apple is the world’s premier bridge builder between mere mortals and the exploding world of high technology. Apple enables mere mortals around the world to grasp by making it easy to learn and use

Apple is the premier company in the world at making the exploding world of high technology easy to learn and use, thereby enabling mere mortals to enrich their lives using it.

Demystified technology, it will have a much greater impact than any other thing we can do. The stores need to be thought of as a mecca for understanding technology and making all of the digits a part of your life. All things digital, digital music, digital photography, people who’ve migrated to broadband, people/families who want to build a home network

Speech to Pixar Employees

“Hopefully we captured a bit of Pixar’s soul in this building.”

In November 2000, Steve officially opened Pixar’s headquarters building in Emeryville, California.

I just wanted to say a few words as we sort of come together to live here. You know, I have seen this building, every square millimeter of this building, in almost every stage of its planning and development and  construction— except for one thing, which is I have never seen people in it. It makes all the difference. This big space here looks pretty big without people in it, and with all of us in it, it looks just right.

We are moving from Point Richmond, where we have lived for eleven years, to our new home here, where I think we are going to live forever. We have land to expand here, and I think a lot of us will spend the rest of our corporate lives here.

We are moving from four buildings to one. One of the things people have said this morning is they are seeing people for the first time that work at our company. That’s both startling and kind of exciting. We have designed this building to be a more urban  environment— that’s what this is, this is Town Square right  here— and it’s a place for you to meet people you have never met before, a place for us to interact and collaborate, which is really the basis of our success. So it’s a very different feeling to get us all into one building, and yet provide us a nice park so we can get away from everybody else when we need to.
