Title: Make Something Wonderful
Date: 2023
URL: https://book.stevejobsarchive.com/
Chunk: 21/32

We bought this land four years ago. It was a giant Del Monte Fruit Cocktail factory. It had been abandoned and was decrepit. It was falling apart, and for some reason, we saw the land underneath it that no one else saw. We bought it. We bought sixteen gorgeous acres of land, which is one of the rare large parcels of land left in the Bay Area.

Deciding what building to build was really hard. When you are in rented buildings, it is easy because they don’t define who you  are— they define who the landlord is! But when you decide to design your own building, you have to ask the question, “Who are  we ?” Because you want to capture some of the soul of the company in the building and reflect who we are.

The design proceeded much like one of our films. First, a treatment; throw it away. Then another; throw it away. And finally, one that is worth  developing— and then zillions and zillions of iterations, model after model after model, detail after detail. We drove our architects crazy. And three years of  development— again, much like one of our films.

And hopefully we captured a bit of Pixar’s soul in this building. Our architects did an amazing job. This is also a hand‑made building. All the steel is hand-joined on this site and bolted together, not welded. Just the drawings to define every connection for every place where steel is bolted to steel were twenty-five hundred pages. Every brick was custom hand‑made, with an old, not-seen-today process, and then hand-laid on the site. John [Lasseter] even laid a  brick— right over there. And every floorboard was hand-laid and sanded on the site. This is a handmade building, just like one of our films.

And the workers discovered that this crazy owner was letting them build a building like they always had dreamed of, like none other built these days. And they brought their families to the construction site on weekends to see their craftwork like no one else is doing  today— just like all of us feel about our films. And though a little blood was spilled, no one was seriously hurt building this building, just like one of our films.

This land and building and grounds cost just shy of $100 million, about the same as it costs to make one of our films. This equals around one year’s salary and benefits for everybody in our studio: to build this whole place, to buy the land, to build the grounds. We are making this investment in our future because we want the best place in the world to support the best talent in the world making the best animated features in the world.

And we paid for it in cash. We have no debt on this building. We own it. Basically, this building was paid for with the profits we made from  A Bug’s Life . And we still have over $200 million of cash in the bank. This building will be a solid investment, just like one of our films.

Pixar’s home was in Point Richmond for eleven years. Now our home is here, and many of us will spend the remainder of our professional lives here.

We are having an open house and holiday party here on Saturday, December 9, in the afternoon and early evening, when you can bring your family to see our new home. This home has been lovingly built by talented workers; the building has good karma already. But its purpose is not just to be a cool building or to impress anyone on the outside. It is to house and inspire the most talented group of filmmakers in the  world— that’s you. And so today, the architects, Tom, Craig, and the amazing crew that we have here at the company, all of the facilities crew and the I.S. [Information Systems] crew, and everybody who has moved us seamlessly over the last week, we are officially turning the building over to you: the creative owners.

So go make some history here!

Steve, 2000.               Rehearsing for Macworld keynote, Tokyo, 2001.             Speech Introducing the First Apple Store

“Wouldn’t it be great if when … you had any questions, you could ask a Genius?”

In May 2001, Steve recorded a private tour of the first Apple Store for an audience of software developers. He had once suggested that the Genius Bar be called the Geek Bar.

[From the sidewalk outside the store]

Hi, I’m Steve Jobs, and I’m here at Tysons Corner Mall in Virginia, right outside of Washington, D.C. And I’m standing in front of this wood barricade we’ve built in front of our first retail store, that’s going to open in six days. Now, nobody’s seen inside here yet. And I’d like to take you inside for a secret little private tour.  [Beckons toward the store]

So come on in. Now, this is our store. And the store’s divided into four parts. The first quarter of the store has our home section, with great home and education products. And our Pro section, with all our great Pro products. Every product we make is in this first 25 percent of the store. You can see the whole product line.

So come on over here. Let me show you what we’ve got going in the home section.

We decided carrying our own products wasn’t enough, so we’re carrying six digital camcorders, six digital cameras, six  MP3  players, and six handheld organizers. So you can come in here, and not only can you buy these digital devices, but you can actually hook them right up to the Macs and take them for a spin.

Wouldn’t it be great if when you went to buy a  computer— or after you bought a  computer— if you had any questions, you could ask a Genius? Well, that’s what we’ve got. This is called the Genius Bar.

I’m not a Genius, but I’ll stand behind here. There’ll be somebody here who can do service right in the store and who could answer any questions you’ve got about your Mac or any of the peripherals or software that work with it. And if that person doesn’t know the answer, they’ve got a hotline to call us in Cupertino at Apple headquarters, where we have somebody who does.

But maybe the most exciting part of the back of the store is our theater. We’ve got an exceptional rear projection screen. We can play our latest commercials back here, we can play some incredible videos back here, and of course we can play iTunes visualizations back here.

One last thing I want to show you is all our great software. Look at this stuff. We have over three hundred titles, from games to the most sophisticated pro applications. There’s something for everybody.

We can’t wait to feature your software right here, in every single one of our stores. So go write some more for us, and we’ll build more shelves for as much as you can write.

Take care.

Email to Apple Employees

“Message from Steve.”

From: Steve Jobs

To: Apple employees

Subject: Message from Steve

Date: September 17, 2001, 7:15 a.m.

Team,

Last week’s devastating and tragic events have touched everyone at Apple. We are all grieving for the victims and their families. Thankfully, no Apple team members were among them. I know many of you have taken time to support various relief efforts, give blood, and support those around you. We all appreciate your extra efforts to do so.

I want to let you know that Apple is donating one million dollars to the families of the firefighters, police and other emergency response personnel who lost their lives, through the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund. In addition, we will donate one iBook to each of these families with children this holiday season.

Also, today we are announcing the cancellation of Apple Expo 2001, which was scheduled to take place in Paris on September 26-30. We are very sorry to disappoint our customers and developers, but their safety must be our primary concern at this time. Apple is a very visible American company, and having a highly publicized event at this time would be irresponsible.
