Title: Make Something Wonderful
Date: 2023
URL: https://book.stevejobsarchive.com/
Chunk: 22/32

We are also taking extra precautions to insure our safety. Apple security will remain on heightened alert at all our facilities around the world for the foreseeable future. Please immediately report any suspicious events or personnel to security.

It’s going to take time for the world to return to “normal”, and some things will never return to the way they were. The next few months may be rocky. Please take the time you need for your families, and please lean on one another. Together, we will all get through this.

I want to commend everyone for their efforts throughout this difficult time. As always, I am very proud of this team.

Steve

Email to Apple Employees

“Excellence.”

Steve said this was his favorite quote.

From: Steve Jobs

To: Apple employees

Subject: Aristotle

Date: January 20, 2002, 12:47 p.m.

We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit. – Aristotle

Steve’s iPod. “Bring the joy of music to even more people.”               A treasured gift Steve kept in his office.             Emails from Steve to Himself

“This song moves me like few others.”

Steve drafted playlists of his favorite songs and why he loved them in 2003, the year the iTunes Music Store debuted.

From: Steve Jobs

To: Steve Jobs

Subject: Re: Celebrity Playlist

Date: April 16, 2003, 9:02 p.m.

1. Sligo River Blues, In Christ There is No East or West, John Fahey

2. If I Laugh, Cat Stevens (or Trouble)

3. Every Grain of Sand, Bob Dylan

4. Baby Let Me Follow You Down, Bob Dylan, 66 tour,live, She Belongs to Me, Desolation Row, Just Like A Woman, It’s All Over Now Baby Blue

5. Vince Guaraldi, Never Never Land

6. Sweet Jane, Velvet Underground

7. Here Comes the Sun, Beatles (Ticket To Ride,

Yesterday, Nowhere Man, In My Life)

8. Little Green, Joni Mitchell

9. Camelot, Lerner & Loewe

10. Suite Judy Blue Eyes, Crosby, Stills & Nash (Wooden Ships)

11. Neil Young, Harvest

12. Hey Joe, Jimi Hendrix

13. How Long Has This Been Going On, Audrey Hepburn, Funny Face

14. Good Shepherd, Jefferson Airplane

15. You’re Still My Woman, B.B. King

16. For A Dancer, Jackson Browne

17. New Morning, Bob Dylan

18. Take Me to the River, Talking Heads,

Stop Making Sense

19. Angel From Montgomery, Bonnie Raitt

20. Father and Son, Cat Stevens

21. Minor Swing, Django Reinhardt

22. Where to Now St. Peter, Elton John

23. Colors/Dance, George Winston

24. The Dark End of the Street, James Carr

25. Come On, Let’s Go, Ritchie Valens

26. Tupelo Honey, Van Morrison

27. Judy Garland, Over the Rainbow, Live

From: Steve Jobs

To: Steve Jobs

Subject: Celebrity Playlist--writeup

Date: December 27, 2003, 4:58 p.m.

For a Dancer

I first heard this on my car radio while driving down Highway 280, and I started crying. I had not listened to much Jackson Browne at that time, and was just blown away by the lyrics. I have since listened to many more of his songs, but this one is still my favorite.

Little Green

This is an autobiographical song by Joni Mitchell about giving a daughter up for adoption. Maybe it’s because I’m adopted, but this song moves me like few others. After I realized what this song was about, I cry every time I hear it. She wrote it when she was young, and it remains one of the best of her many great songs.

I Get A Kick Out of You

From Ella’s incomparable Cole Porter Songbook album.

All I Have to Do is Dream

This song was a hit when I was very young, and I remember listening to it as my parents listened to it, which brings back great memories. It was a transition period from the 50s to the 60s -- Buddy Holly was dead, the Beatles hadn’t arrived yet, and groups like The Everly Brothers filled the gap nicely.

Email from Steve to Himself

“This is what it feels like to be living  in— and  creating— a Golden Age.”

Steve sent himself notes to prepare for a talk on Pixar.

From: Steve Jobs

To: Steve Jobs

Subject: Re: Golden Age

Date: May 3, 2003, 5:08 p.m.

Websters Dictionary states that the term Golden Age dates from 1555 and means: a period of great happiness, prosperity, and achievement.

Pixar is in a Golden Age. With our soon-to-be-released Finding Nemo, we have completed 5 computer animated feature films, with three more in some stage of production. All original Pixar stories. Our track record of 4 for 4, and hopefully 5 for 5, is unparalleled in the history of animation, and indeed in the history of film.

Our real Golden Age is being fueled by the maturing of our people. I have seen Pete, Andrew and Lee grow into the second generation of Pixar Directors, all with the experience of leading the creation of a feature film under their belts. I have seen Darla and Graham grow into our industry’s best producers, producing our films with greater and greater mastery. I have seen Rob Cook and his R&D team ushering in a new, second golden age of amazing new Pixar science and technology. And I see more directors and producers coming right behind them. In every aspect of our studio, I see the kind of sprouting that signals  Springtime— and I think the world, which is already amazed at what we have done so far, is going to be even more amazed at what’s in store for them in the coming years.

Tonight is a night for celebration, but don’t forget to pause for a moment and realize that this is what it feels like to be living  in— and  creating— a Golden Age. And, 25 years from now, when a  kid— maybe even your  grandkid— asks you what it was like to be at Pixar during its Golden Age, you’ll  know— if you can only find the words to describe it.

Interview with Leslie Berlin

“I think I got lucky and had the chutzpah to call these guys up.”

On May 24, 2003, Steve spoke with Leslie Berlin about his mentor Robert Noyce. Noyce co-invented the microchip and co-founded Intel and Fairchild Semiconductor, the first successful silicon microchip company in Silicon Valley.

Leslie Berlin:  Why’d you decide to join the Grinnell College board?

Steve Jobs:  Bob asked me to do it. I went to a small liberal arts college. Six months officially, and for two years I was kind of a drop-in. And so I’ve always had a soft spot for private liberal arts colleges. You really only find them in America, and they’re a very wonderful thing.

It was a fun experience. And the funnest part was just traveling down with Bob. We almost died together; I don’t know if you know about this.

LB:  No.

SJ:  Well, Bob’s a pilot, as you know. He flew all kinds of planes. He bought a Seabee. Have you heard about that?

LB:  I’ve heard that he had this plane.

SJ:  It was a Seabee. And a Seabee was a World War II plane. They stopped making them probably at the end of the forties. And there were like a hundred of them left. It was a plane whose fuselage was in the shape of the hull of a boat. Its wings were on top; and it could land on a runway or in the water.

He bought one. He had just gotten it, and he called me up and said, “Hey, there’s a Seabee fly-in up at Trinity Lake. […] Do you want to go?” I said, “Sure. Let’s go.” So, we get in the Seabee plane […] and we land in Lake Shasta. We got out and went for a swim, and it was really great. Really great. So we take off again, and it’s getting kind of hot. Bob pulls a lever that he thinks is the air ventilation. But he pulls the wrong lever. He pulled the lever that locks the wheels.

We get to Trinity Lake, and he’s landing on the runway […] and we hit the tarmac. The wheels on the wings, of course, are locked, so the plane immediately lunges forward. Sparks start flying. We very nearly flipped the plane over. It was only due to his excellent piloting that we survived.

And I was imagining, as this was all happening, the headlines: “Bob Noyce and Steve Jobs Killed in Fiery Plane Crash.” I think it was pretty close.
