Title: Make Something Wonderful
Date: 2023
URL: https://book.stevejobsarchive.com/
Chunk: 32/32

In March 2010, Steve advocated for a bill requiring the California Department of Motor Vehicles to ask driver’s license applicants if they want to register as organ donors. The bill, which later passed and was signed into law by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, also established a state registry for people to donate kidneys during their lifetime.

Thank you, Governor Schwarzenegger.

Last year, I received a liver transplant. I was very fortunate, because many others died waiting to receive one. Last year in California, there were six hundred and seventy-one liver transplants. But last year there were also over thirty-four hundred people waiting for a liver, and over four hundred of them died waiting in California.

I was almost one of the ones that died waiting for a liver in California last year. I was receiving great care here at Stanford, but there were simply not enough livers in California to go around, and my doctors here advised me to enroll in a transplant program in Memphis, Tennessee, where the supply-demand ratio of livers is more favorable than it is in California here. And I was lucky enough to get a liver in time. As a matter of fact, this coming week is my one-year anniversary.

So why aren’t there more organs available in California? Because in California, like most other states in the nation, you must specifically request to become an organ donor at the Department of Motor Vehicles, when you’re there to get or renew your driver’s license. No one asks you if you want to become a donor. And there’s no marketing campaign to make you aware of this opportunity either, so unless you know about it and unless you specifically ask, nobody is going to ask you. Nobody is going to give you this opportunity.

And yet even with this obscure procedure, over 20 percent of Californians have signed up to be organ donors, which is fantastic.

But imagine what it could be if everyone knew of this opportunity.

And that’s what the governor’s bill will do. It will simply require the DMV to ask you if you’d like to become an organ donor. That’s it. Asking this one simple question may double the number of transplant organs available in California. One simple question. And that’s a very high return on investment, especially for the over twenty thousand Californians currently waiting for an organ transplant.

So, Governor, thank you for your leadership on this bill. And now I’d like to introduce Senator Alquist.

Thank you.

Email to Apple Employees

“Today.”

From: Steve Jobs

To: Apple employees

Subject: Today

Date: May 26, 2010, 5:59 p.m.

Team,

As most of you already know, at the close of today’s stock market, Apple’s market cap (stock price × number of shares) surpassed Microsoft’s market cap.

As I once said in a company email sent a long time ago: “Stocks go up and down, and things may be different tomorrow, but I thought it was worth a moment of reflection today.” And so it is again.

Walt Disney used to say to his team: “We’re only as good as our next picture.” Well, we’re only as good as our next amazing new product.

Back to work…

Steve

Email from Steve to Himself

[No Subject]

From: Steve Jobs

To: Steve Jobs

Subject:

Date: September 2, 2010, 11:08 p.m.

I grow little of the food I eat, and of the little I do grow I did not breed or perfect the seeds.

I do not make any of my own clothing.

I speak a language I did not invent or refine.

I did not discover the mathematics I use.

I am protected by freedoms and laws I did not conceive of or legislate, and do not enforce or adjudicate.

I am moved by music I did not create myself.

When I needed medical attention, I was helpless to help myself survive.

I did not invent the transistor, the microprocessor, object oriented programming, or most of the technology I work with.

I love and admire my species, living and dead, and am totally dependent on them for my life and well being.

Sent from my iPad

Walking through a mockup for Apple Park, 2010.               “Technology alone is not enough,” 2011.               Presenting plans to the Cupertino City Council, 2011.               Steve on his iPhone, circa 2010–2011.               Steve’s resignation from Apple, August 2011.                                    Key Events

January 1975—  Popular Electronics  publishes a story about the Altair 8800, sparking the microcomputer revolution. That same year, Bill Gates drops out of Harvard to design programming languages for the Altair. Meanwhile, in Silicon Valley, a club launches for people who want to build their own computers: the Homebrew Computer Club, which Steve occasionally attends with Steve Wozniak.

April 1976— Steve and Woz co-found Apple Computer to sell the Apple I, designed by Woz. (A third co-founder, Ron Wayne, drops out ten days after joining.) Apple I buyers must supply their own keyboards and television monitors, as well as know how to write hexadecimal code and use a soldering iron.

January 1977— Apple incorporates, with ownership split evenly among Steve, Woz, and the angel investor Mike Markkula.

April 1977— The Apple II, a more user-friendly computer, debuts at the West Coast Computer Faire in San Francisco. At $1,298, the Apple II costs about twice as much as a year of in-state tuition at the University of California.

May 1978— Lisa Brennan Jobs is born.

May 1979— Apple’s publications department manager, Jef Raskin, begins work on an inexpensive computer he calls Macintosh.

December 1979— During a visit to Xerox’s Palo Alto Research Center, Steve sees, for the first time, a networked computer with a mouse, windows, icons, menus, and multiple typefaces. “I was so blown away,” he later recalled. He brings the technology, and several PARC researchers, to Apple.

September 1980— Steve takes over the high-profile Lisa computer project. He is removed nine months later, after the team rebels against his management style.

December 1980— Apple goes public in one of the most successful initial public offerings in American history up to that time.

February 1981— Ten years after dropping out of the University of California, Berkeley, Woz leaves Apple to re-enroll.

Steve takes over the Macintosh project.

August 1981— Apple faces its first real competition when IBM introduces its personal computer. IBM’s market share soon surpasses Apple’s.

January 1983—  Time  shakes up its “Man of the Year” tradition to choose the computer as “Machine of the Year.”

Apple introduces the Lisa computer, priced at $10,000, targeting business users. It fails in the market.

April 1983— Jobs recruits the Pepsi executive John Sculley to be Apple’s CEO, using the memorable line, “Do you want to sell sugar water for the rest of your life, or do you want to come with me and change the world?”

January 1984— Macintosh debuts.

June 1985— When Macintosh sales fall far short of projections, Apple lays off 20 percent of employees and announces the first quarterly loss in its history.

September 1985— After losing a power struggle with Sculley, Steve leaves Apple with five Mac team members in tow. Within days, Apple sues for breach of fiduciary responsibility and charges Steve with masterminding a “nefarious” scheme to steal trade secrets for his new computer company, NeXT.

January 1986— Steve becomes the majority shareholder in Pixar, after the pioneering computer scientist Alan Kay introduces him to the company’s leaders, Ed Catmull and Alvy Ray Smith.

NeXT and Apple settle their lawsuit over NeXT’s launch and Steve’s recruitment of Mac team members out of court.

August 1986— Steve attends the premiere of Pixar’s first animated short,  Luxo Jr. , at a graphics industry conference.  Luxo Jr.  showcases Pixar’s software, but it is the audience’s standing ovation for the storytelling that catches Steve’s attention.

October 1988— Steve unveils the NeXT Computer System at Davies Symphony Hall in San Francisco. A highlight is the machine’s five-minute performance of a Bach violin concerto, accompanied by a violinist from the symphony. The computer did not sell well but had its fans; Tim Berners-Lee wrote the code for the World Wide Web on a NeXT computer.

March 1989— Pixar’s film  Tin Toy  wins an Oscar for Best Animated Short, a first for a computer-animated movie.

March 1991— Steve marries Laurene Powell in a ceremony at Yosemite.

July 1991— Facing heavy financial pressure, Pixar signs a deal with Disney that is far more favorable to the larger company. In exchange for financing up to three Pixar films, Disney owns the films and their characters, receives most of the films’ profits, and prohibits Pixar from pitching to another studio any ideas that Disney rejects.

September 1991— Reed Jobs is born.

February 1993— Steve ends NeXT’s production of computers to focus entirely on software.

October 1993— With Apple losing tens of millions of dollars every quarter, CEO John Sculley, who pushed Steve out of Apple in 1985, resigns. Apple will cycle through two more CEOs in the next three years but fail to regain its footing.

August 1995— Erin Jobs is born.

November 1995—  Toy Story , the world’s first full-length fully animated feature film, earns $29 million in its opening weekend. It goes on to become the top-grossing animated movie of the year.

A week after  Toy Story  opens, Pixar holds a successful initial public offering. It was a bold bet placed months earlier; if  Toy Story  had been a bust, the IPO would have been one, too.

December 1996— In need of a new operating system, Apple acquires NeXT for $427 million. As part the agreement, Steve rejoins Apple as a special adviser to the CEO, Gil Amelio.

February 1997— The success of  Toy Story  and Pixar’s IPO give Steve leverage to negotiate a more favorable agreement with Disney. The companies sign a five-picture deal.

June 1997— In a public show of no confidence in Amelio, Steve sells a huge block of the Apple shares he received in the NeXT acquisition. Three months later, Steve is named interim CEO.

August 1997— Bill Gates appears on a giant video screen at Macworld to announce Microsoft’s commitment to developing Microsoft Office for Mac. When the audience begins heckling, Steve reprimands them: “We have to let go of […] this notion that for Apple to win, Microsoft has to lose.”

September 1997— Apple introduces the “Think Different” advertising campaign. One year later, it wins an Emmy Award for Outstanding Commercial.

March 1998— Steve hires Tim Cook as Apple’s chief of operations.

July 1998— Eve Jobs is born.

August 1998— Apple debuts the Bondi Blue iMac. The “i” stands for “internet,” targeting consumers who want to “surf the web” as easily as catching a wave at Australia’s Bondi Beach.

October 1998— Apple announces its first profitable year since 1995.

January 2000— In the last three minutes of his Macworld presentation, Steve surprises the audience with the announcement that he will drop “interim” from his CEO title.

March 2000— The wave of internet optimism crashes. The NASDAQ loses nearly $1 trillion in a single month, and hundreds of start-up companies fail in a “dotcom bust.”

November 2000— Pixar’s new campus in Emeryville, California, opens. Steve has been so involved in the headquarters  design— from the town hall atrium to the  bathrooms— that people call it “Steve’s movie.”

May 2001— The first Apple retail stores open in Tysons, Virginia, and Glendale, California.

March 2001— Apple releases OS X, an operating system based on the NeXTStep software developed at NeXT. Updated versions of the operating system remain at the heart of many Apple products today.

October 2001— Apple introduces the iPod. It’s a new kind of product for the company, not a computer but a portable device built to sync with a computer. Apple built a music player, Steve says, because “We love music, and it’s always good to do something you love.”

April 2003— Apple opens the iTunes Music Store, making it easy to buy individual songs online. The store is only available for Apple computers, but users download one million tracks in the first week. Six months later, at the urging of his executive team, Steve agrees to make the store compatible with non-Apple computers.

March 2004— Pixar’s fifth film,  Finding Nemo , wins an Oscar for Best Animated Feature.

July 2004— Steve undergoes surgery to remove a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor.

January 2006— Disney acquires Pixar for $7.4 billion in stock. Steve becomes Disney’s largest shareholder and joins the board of directors, while John Lasseter and Ed Catmull assume leadership of Disney Animation.

January 2007— The iPhone debuts. Steve calls it “the most revolutionary and exciting product in Apple’s history.”

March 2009— On leave from Apple, Steve receives a liver transplant in Memphis, Tennessee.

January 2010— Steve introduces the iPad, calling it “a magical and revolutionary device.”

August 2010—  Toy Story 3  becomes the highest-grossing animated movie of all time.

August 2011— Six weeks before his death, Steve resigns as Apple’s CEO and recommends that Tim Cook replace him. In his resignation letter, Steve writes, “I’ve made some of the best friends of my life at Apple, and I thank you all for the many years of being able to work alongside you.”

One More Thing …

Life can be much broader once you discover one simple  fact— and that is: everything around you that you call life was made up by people that were no smarter than you.

And you can change it.

You can influence it.

You can build your own things that other people can use.

And the minute you can understand that you can poke life, and if you push in, then something will pop out the other side; that you can change it, you can mold  it— that’s maybe the most important thing: to shake off this erroneous notion that life is there, and you’re just going to live in it versus embrace it, change it, improve it, make your mark upon it.

I think that’s very important, and however you learn that, once you learn it, you’ll want to change life and make it better. Because it’s kind of messed up in a lot of ways.

Once you learn that, you’ll never be the same again.

— Steve, 1994

Copyright © 2023 Steve Jobs Archive.
All rights reserved.

Make Something Wonderful

Steve Jobs in his own words

Designed by LoveFrom  Typeset in LoveFrom Serif
